What is the stuff of legend?
Is it making a game winning shot?
Is it revolutionizing an industry or a country?
Super-human efforts lead us to placing men
and women on pedestals for all to admire and
aspire to.
What is more super-human than fighting off
a group of enemy combatants by oneself?
That is the stuff of legend.
Unfortunately, as time has passed, many legends
have been forgotten.
Men who have done the unthinkable on the battlefield,
with some even living to tell the tale.
Our list consists of soldiers who have shown
other-wordly courage and loyalty to cause
and country.
Here are 10 incredible stories of warriors
who took on the enemy all alone.
10.
Aníbal Augusto Milhais
Conflict: World War I
Born in Portugal in 1895, Milhais is viewed
as the most important soldier in his nation’s
history.
Drafted when he was only 20, Milhais was ushered
from his small village to the front line of
the Portuguese Second Infantry division.
The legend of Anibal Milhais began during
the Battle of Lys.
Portuguese involvement in World War I was
mostly centered in Belgium with British and
Portuguese soldiers defending the area from
invading German divisions.
With casualties growing – 1,938 men killed,
5,198 wounded, with an additional 7,000 taken
prisoner – Milhais was in charge of one
of the machine guns.
As the Germans continued their advance against
retreating soldiers, Milhais defended against
the assault by laying down intense fire, causing
many German casualties.
Instead of retreating with the other soldiers,
he continued firing, covering the full the
retreat of Portuguese and British alike despite
coming under heavy attack.
Milhais continued firing at his post until
he ran out of ammunition.
If that wasn’t enough, Milhais would again
come to the rescue of Belgian troops, standing
alone with his machine gun, and covering another
group of retreating troops.
Not a single casualty was reported.
As a result of heroic efforts, Anibal Augusto
Milhais was awarded the highest military honor
in the country.
9.
Lone Viking
Conflict: Battle of Stamford Bridge
The Norse were being pushed back by the Saxon
Army, their morale was low, and they struggled
to reorganize their ranks as their enemy breathed
down their necks.
Out of the chaos, a lone Viking emerged.
He pushed his way through his retreating brethren
and faced the Saxon army on a bridge that
had the width of three men.
Our lone Viking was a large man with wide
shoulders, wearing a helmet that covered his
nose and metal that draped across his chest.
According to legend, he stepped out toward
the middle of the bridge by his lonesome with
his fellow Vikings organizing their famous
shield wall defense.
The Battle of Stamford Bridge was the result
of the Norse army pillaging and burning English
towns like Scarborough and York.
While enjoying the spoils of their victories
near Stamford Bridge, the English Saxon Army
marched 180 miles in four days to face them.
After the great Viking king, Harald Hardrada,
was killed in the battle, the Vikings seemed
destined to be routed by the Saxons.
However, our lone Viking had other ideas.
Both sides share the account of the heroic
effort.
A lone man standing on the bridge as the Saxons
came upon him.
Our legend swung his battle axe, killing each
man that stepped forward, and remained unmoved
from his position despite the many arrows
lodged across his torso.
Finally, a Saxon soldier, who went below the
bridge, stabbed the Viking up through the
wooden slats.
However, it wasn’t until our lone Norseman
took at least 40 Saxon troops from the field
of battle and rallied his Vikings.
8.
Dian Wei
Conflict: Battle of Wancheng
One of the earliest conflicts on our list
is the Battle of Wancheng, where Dian Wei
made himself one of the most famed warriors
in the Eastern Han Dynasty.
After fleeing his home, Wei managed to impress
a regional commander and eventually was promoted
to Commandant.
The role put him in charge of the safety of
warlord Cao Cao, commanding his personal guards.
Dian Wei would take this responsibility to
heart.
After Cao Cao led the successful invasion
of a province, the warlord, Zhang Xiu, immediately
surrendered.
Pleased with Xiu’s surrender, Cao Cao threw
a party for Zhang Xiu and his men.
However, a historical rendition of “The
Red Wedding” ensued with Zhang Ziu rebelling
and launching a surprise attack on Cao’s
unprepared forces.
Many of Cao’s men would be killed as he
retreated with a few horsemen, however Dian
Wei did not flee.
He stood tall and fought.
Wei had about a dozen men and were greatly
outnumbered.
Wei fought to the death allowing Cao to escape.
Legend has it that Dian Wei lay on the ground
for several minutes, but the enemy soldiers
were too afraid to approach him.
Feared even after death – Wei’s story
will live on.
7.
Ben L. Salomon
Conflict: World War II
The United States entry into World War II
changed the lives of thousands of young Americans.
Ben L. Salomon had just graduated from college
when he was drafted into the Army.
Salomon had an opportunity to never see the
horrors of war.
Stationed in Hawaii as a dentist, he would
have received an honorable discharge without
seeing the battlefield.
However, when a medic was killed in the line
of duty, Salomon volunteered to take his place.
Salomon and the 2nd Battalion managed to complete
their objective of clearing a coastal area
stronghold.
However, it seemed inevitable that they would
face a strong counter-attack.
Soon after, Japanese Army commander General
Saito ordered all remaining Japanese soldiers
would “advance to attack the American forces
and will all die an honorable death.
Each man will kill ten Americans.”
Deployed as a paramedic, Salomon had set up
close to the shoreline, making him vulnerable
to a possible attack.
Soon after the Japanese counter-attack began,
the station was overwhelmed with more than
thirty wounded.
Salomon had to juggle to save the most seriously
wounded while fighting off Japanese soldiers
who entered the aid tent.
The station was soon overwhelmed with Japanese
attackers.
Salomon forced his men to leave the station
while he fought off the Japanese.
The last living memory of Ben L. Salomon was
his him taking over the machine gun after
the gunner died.
He managed to take out an incredible 98 enemies
before himself being killed, his body reportedly
riddled with up to 76 bullet holes.
Shakespeare’s quote comes to mind in the
manner of Salomon’s death: “Cowards die
many times before their deaths; the valiant
never taste death but once.”
6.
John R. McKinney
Conflict: World War II
The war in the Pacific has often been characterized
as one of the most brutal campaigns American
soldiers have had to endure.
Surviving the war is a feat in itself, but
being awarded the Medal of Honor (that’s
him on the left in the photo above, receiving
the award) places Sergeant John R. McKinney
in the halls of legends.
While fighting in the Philippine Islands,
McKinney was part of a unit tasked with defending
an outpost that would become overrun with
Japanese forces.
As the outpost was being captured, McKinney
received a blow to the head by a saber.
Despite his injury, he seized his rifle, struck
the attacker with the butt of his weapon,
and killed another Japanese soldier who had
entered the post.
McKinney noticed that the machine gun operator
was injured and had to be carried away.
Soon after, it came under the control of the
Japanese.
What follows is nothing short of legendary:
McKinney managed to kill ten Japanese soldiers
who were huddled around the machine gun, shooting
three of them while bludgeoning to death the
rest.
In a bitter irony, the machine gun proved
to be inoperable and McKinney was left with
just his rifle to defend against the ongoing
Japanese advancement.
Still, he managed to singlehandedly secure
the area.
By the time more US troops arrived, the encounter
was already over.
They counted 38 dead Japanese around him with
two more at the side of a mortar 45 yards
away.
5.
Sempronius Densus
In a list comprised of military immortality,
what would our list be without the inclusion
of a tale of Roman conspiracy and heroism?
The conspiracy would come in the form of Marcus
Otho, a rival of Densus’ deputy, who would
conspire to kill deputy Piso Licinianus and
Emperor Galbus.
One Roman Centurion, Sempronius Densus, proved
to be the only man willing to stop Otho’s
plot.
In 69 AD, Emperor Galbus and his deputy Licinianus
were being paraded down the streets of Rome
when the plot unfolded.
A large group of men surrounded the proceedings
and attacked the Emperor.
While other Centurions fled or even joined
the attackers, Densus fought off as many men
as he could, refusing to give up his position.
Finally, he was overcome and killed, but his
heroics live on in Roman lore.
4.
Saito Musashibo
Conflict: Battle of Gojo Bridge
The range of life experiences of Saito Musahibo
is hard to imagine.
Not many film characters even manage to have
the character arc of Saito Musashibo.
At an early age, he joined the Buddhist Monks
of Japan until he was thrown out for unruly
behavior.
Somehow his schooling as a monk included the
ways of the samurai.
It was not long after this that Benkei, for
some unknown reason, stood alone at Gojo Bridge
killing every man that attempted to pass.
In the end, nearly 1,000 swords lay at his
feet.
Finally, Benkei was defeated by Minamoto no
Yoshitsune and a partnership that has remarkable
parallels to Butch Cassidy and the Sundance
Kid developed.
For four years, Benkei and Yoshitsune lived
as outlaws before ultimately finding themselves
surrounded in the castle of Koromogawa, just
like their fictional counterparts.
With their fate sealed, Yoshitsune chose to
end his own life with ritual suicide.
Benkei, on the other hand, was having precisely
none of that.
He continued his efforts to hold off the advancing
soldiers to keep them from his friend, while
archers rained arrows down upon him.
Benkei’s reputation led to many soldiers
fearing to cross the bridge to confront him.
Eventually, the soldiers noticed that the
giant warrior – who supposedly stood 6-foot-7
– was no longer moving.
Some of the soldiers finally managed to muster
up enough courage to take a closer look, and
realized that he was dead, yet had somehow
managed to stay on his feet anyway.
3.
Simo Hayha
Conflict: Winter War
Our list is filled with ordinary men who were
thrust into war and became the stuff of legend.
The case of Simo Hayha is no different.
A farmer and hunter, Hayha joined the Finnish
Army when he was just twenty.
By the end of the war, he would claim responsibility
for the deaths of more than 500 Soviet troops.
In 1939, when the Soviet Union invaded Finland,
Hayha decided to join the military and fight
off the Soviet expansion.
Geography played a major part in the war with
a major portion of the fight taking place
in wooded areas.
As a result, Simo Hayha was able to take cover
and hide in the thick forest while targeting
Russian soldiers.
Eventually, Soviet soldiers became terrified
of the man and nicknamed him “The White
Death,” as he was wearing a white camouflage
uniform.
Reports show that the Russians made a concerted
effort to kill Hayha, even compromising the
life of many soldiers just to eliminate the
great sniper.
After the failure of a team of soldiers, the
Russian army sent a group of snipers to eliminate
Simo Hayha, but this too failed.
Hayha would compile a kill total that would
seem only plausible in video games.
Finally, in March 1940, one Soviet soldier
managed to shoot Hayha through the jaw, but
he survive.
Simo Hayha recovered and managed to live to
the ripe old age of 96.
2.
Yogendra Singh Yadav
Conflict: Kargil War
One of the oldest unresolved conflicts in
the world is the struggle for Kashmir between
India and Pakistan.
Since the end of British rule and the creation
of India and Pakistan, wars have been fought
over the small region of land.
The Kargil conflict began in 1999 with Pakistani
troops and Kashmiri militants crossing the
Indian border.
Yogendra Singh Yadav was only 19 years old
when the war started.
His unit’s mission was to reach the top
of Tiger Hill, and capture three strategic
bunkers.
Naturally, the bunker sat at the top of a
cliff face that was nearly 17,000 feet high.
What did the 19 year old Yadav do?
He led the assault, of course.
They installed ropes that would allow them
to climb the cliff face and also provide a
means for future assaults, should they fail.
Halfway up the cliff face, it seemed like
they would.
The platoon commander was killed along with
two other soldiers.
Yadav himself was shot three times in the
groin and the shoulder.
However, he willed himself forward, climbing
the remaining 60 feet and reaching the bunkers.
Upon reaching the top, Yadav lobbed a grenade
into the first bunker and killed four men.
After neutralizing the first bunker, Yadav
charged forward towards the second with enemy
soldiers firing on him.
Somehow, he managed to kill the four armed
enemy soldiers.
He and two other soldiers managed to secure
the bunker and allow the rest of his unit
to reach the summit of the cliff.
Yadav and his unit were able to capture all
three bunkers and India would go on to win
the war.
1.
Alvin York
Conflict: World War I
What makes Alvin York’s exploits so astounding
is the fact that he was initially denied his
conscientious objector application.
A pacifist, York had to be convinced that
the duty of a Christian during war is to fight.
And fight he did.
In 1918, Alvin C. York reportedly killed over
20 German soldiers and helped capture an additional
132 at the head of a small detachment in the
Argonne Forest near the Meuse River in France
during World War I.
A passage from his diary shows his inner turmoil
and courage in battle.
At this point, we feel the best course is
to just let Sergeant York tell his own story…
“[T]hose machine guns were spitting fire
and cutting down the undergrowth all around
me something awful….
I didn’t have time to dodge behind a tree
or dive into the brush, I didn’t even have
time to kneel or lie down….
As soon as the machine guns opened fire on
me, I began to exchange shots with them.
In order to sight me or to swing their machine
guns on me, the Germans had to show their
heads above the trench, and every time I saw
a head I just touched it off.
All the time I kept yelling at them to come
down.
I didn’t want to kill any more than I had
to.
But it was they or I.
And I was giving them the best I had.”
Alvin York would return home an American hero,
and would later earn the Congressional Medal
of Honor.
So incredible were his deeds that both France,
Italy, and Montenegro also honored his remarkable
courage.
His story was later turned into a movie starring
Gary Cooper.